README.md, before:

# CustomerServiceManagement

**What it does**

1. Reads all **unread** Gmail messages.
2. Uses **GPT-4.1** to classify each as `lead`, `customer`, or `other` and assign an `importance` score (1-10).
3. Ignores `other` and automatically skips promotional or newsletter emails
   based on message headers/body content (e.g., List-Unsubscribe/List-ID or
   unsubscribe text).
4. Routes each message:
   * High-importance emails open a ticket in **FreeScout** with retry logic.
   * Lower-importance emails get a draft asking for more details.
   * Drafts are self-critiqued until scoring ≥ 8 and then saved to Gmail.
5. Prints a one-line log per processed email.
6. Polls FreeScout for recent ticket updates after processing.

---

## Processing gates and terminal states

The database is the **only** skip gate for Gmail message processing and is the
source of truth. If a message is not recorded in the DB, it will be evaluated
regardless of Gmail labels or other metadata.

Gmail labels are **cosmetic only** and are never used for control flow. Label
changes do not prevent reprocessing or bypass any step.

Filtered messages are recorded in the DB as a **terminal state** (`filtered`)
and are not reprocessed. Successfully ticketed/appended messages are stored as
`success`. If FreeScout is unavailable or ticket creation fails, the run is
marked `failed` (retryable) and reruns will continue processing the same
message until it reaches a terminal DB state.

---

## Quick start

```bash
pip install google-api-python-client google-auth-oauthlib openai requests
export OPENAI_API_KEY="sk-…"
export FREESCOUT_URL="https://desk.example.com"   # or set in config.yaml
export FREESCOUT_KEY="your-freescout-api-key"      # or set in config.yaml
python gmail_bot.py

OAuth – the first run opens a browser window; token is cached in token.pickle.
Pass `--console-auth` or set `gmail.use_console_oauth: true` in `config.yaml`
to use the copy/paste console flow when no browser is available.
```
### Development

Run `flake8` before committing:
```bash
flake8 Draft_Replies.py gmail_bot.py utils.py
```


### Tweaking behavior

Edit `config.yaml` to adjust limits and model settings. Key options include:

- `openai.draft_system_message` – system prompt used for draft replies.
- `openai.draft_max_tokens` – token limit for reply generation.
- `openai.classify_max_tokens` – token limit for the classification step.
- `limits.max_drafts` – maximum number of drafts created per run.
- `gmail.query` – default Gmail search query.
- `http.timeout` – HTTP request timeout in seconds.

## Working fully inside FreeScout

Reps can now triage and respond without Gmail drafts. FreeScout conversations
can be ingested either by polling from `gmail_bot.py` or via a lightweight
webhook handler. The bot uses the FreeScout API to fetch the conversation's
latest customer message, classifies it with OpenAI, and then updates the ticket
in place: priority, assignment, tags, custom fields, and internal notes with an
optional suggested reply.

### Configure actions

Set the following keys in `config.yaml` under `ticket:`:

- `webhook_secret` – shared secret to validate webhook calls (header
  `X-Webhook-Secret`).
- `poll_interval` – how often to poll FreeScout when running with
  `--poll-freescout`.
- `actions.update_priority` – set FreeScout priority using the AI importance
  score; `actions.priority_high_threshold` controls the urgency cutoff.
- `actions.assign_to_user_id` – FreeScout user ID to auto-assign (optional).
- `actions.apply_tags` – tag conversations with the detected type and a
  `high-priority` tag when applicable.
- `mailbox_id` – FreeScout mailbox ID used when creating conversations (required
  for ticket creation).
- `gmail_thread_field_id` / `gmail_message_field_id` – custom field IDs to store
  the Gmail `threadId`/`messageId` on the ticket for traceability (optional).
- `actions.custom_fields.type_field_id` / `importance_field_id` – custom field
  IDs to store the classification and importance (optional).
- `actions.post_internal_notes` – add an internal note summarizing the
  classification.
- `actions.post_suggested_reply` – add an internal note containing a suggested
  AI reply so agents can reply directly from FreeScout.

### Scheduled polling

```bash
python gmail_bot.py --poll-freescout --poll-interval 300
```

The bot fetches recent conversations from FreeScout, classifies the newest
customer thread, updates ticket metadata, and posts notes/suggestions based on
the configured toggles.

### Webhook handler

Add this minimal FastAPI or Flask endpoint to receive FreeScout webhooks and
let `gmail_bot` do the rest:

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI, Header, Request
from gmail_bot import freescout_webhook_handler

app = FastAPI()

@app.post("/freescout")
async def freescout(payload: Request, x_webhook_secret: str | None = Header(None)):
    body = await payload.json()
    message, status = freescout_webhook_handler(body, {"X-Webhook-Secret": x_webhook_secret})
    return message, status
```

Deploy the webhook with HTTPS and set the URL inside FreeScout's webhook
settings. The handler validates `X-Webhook-Secret` (when configured) and then
fetches the conversation from FreeScout before applying the same classification
and update flow used by the poller.

Commit message:

Make draft skip optional and document draft-only mode

README.md, after:

# CustomerServiceManagement

**What it does**

1. Reads all **unread** Gmail messages.
2. Uses **GPT-4.1** to classify each as `lead`, `customer`, or `other` and assign an `importance` score (1-10).
3. Ignores `other` and automatically skips promotional or newsletter emails
   based on message headers/body content (e.g., List-Unsubscribe/List-ID or
   unsubscribe text).
4. Routes each message:
   * High-importance emails open a ticket in **FreeScout** with retry logic.
   * Lower-importance emails get a draft asking for more details.
   * Drafts are self-critiqued until scoring ≥ 8 and then saved to Gmail.
5. Prints a one-line log per processed email.
6. Polls FreeScout for recent ticket updates after processing.

---

## Processing gates and terminal states

The database is the **only** skip gate for Gmail message processing and is the
source of truth. If a message is not recorded in the DB, it will be evaluated
regardless of Gmail labels or other metadata.

Gmail labels are **cosmetic only** and are never used for control flow. Label
changes do not prevent reprocessing or bypass any step.

Filtered messages are recorded in the DB as a **terminal state** (`filtered`)
and are not reprocessed. Successfully ticketed/appended messages are stored as
`success`. If FreeScout is unavailable or ticket creation fails, the run is
marked `failed` (retryable) and reruns will continue processing the same
message until it reaches a terminal DB state.

---

## Quick start

```bash
pip install google-api-python-client google-auth-oauthlib openai requests
export OPENAI_API_KEY="sk-…"
export FREESCOUT_URL="https://desk.example.com"   # or set in config.yaml
export FREESCOUT_KEY="your-freescout-api-key"      # or set in config.yaml
python gmail_bot.py

OAuth – the first run opens a browser window; token is cached in token.pickle.
Pass `--console-auth` or set `gmail.use_console_oauth: true` in `config.yaml`
to use the copy/paste console flow when no browser is available.
```
### Development

Run `flake8` before committing:
```bash
flake8 Draft_Replies.py gmail_bot.py utils.py
```


### Tweaking behavior

Edit `config.yaml` to adjust limits and model settings. Key options include:

- `openai.draft_system_message` – system prompt used for draft replies.
- `openai.draft_max_tokens` – token limit for reply generation.
- `openai.classify_max_tokens` – token limit for the classification step.
- `limits.max_drafts` – maximum number of drafts created per run.
- `gmail.query` – default Gmail search query.
- `http.timeout` – HTTP request timeout in seconds.

## Working fully inside FreeScout

Reps can now triage and respond without Gmail drafts. FreeScout conversations
can be ingested either by polling from `gmail_bot.py` or via a lightweight
webhook handler. The bot uses the FreeScout API to fetch the conversation's
latest customer message, classifies it with OpenAI, and then updates the ticket
in place: priority, assignment, tags, custom fields, and internal notes with an
optional suggested reply.

### Draft-only mode (separate from Phase 2C ingestion)

`Draft_Replies.py` is a standalone, draft-only script. It does not gate or
replace Phase 2C FreeScout ingestion, and draft creation should not block
FreeScout create/append flows. Use `--skip-existing-drafts` only when you want
to avoid new drafts in threads that already have one (default: off).

### Configure actions

Set the following keys in `config.yaml` under `ticket:`:

- `webhook_secret` – shared secret to validate webhook calls (header
  `X-Webhook-Secret`).
- `poll_interval` – how often to poll FreeScout when running with
  `--poll-freescout`.
- `actions.update_priority` – set FreeScout priority using the AI importance
  score; `actions.priority_high_threshold` controls the urgency cutoff.
- `actions.assign_to_user_id` – FreeScout user ID to auto-assign (optional).
- `actions.apply_tags` – tag conversations with the detected type and a
  `high-priority` tag when applicable.
- `mailbox_id` – FreeScout mailbox ID used when creating conversations (required
  for ticket creation).
- `gmail_thread_field_id` / `gmail_message_field_id` – custom field IDs to store
  the Gmail `threadId`/`messageId` on the ticket for traceability (optional).
- `actions.custom_fields.type_field_id` / `importance_field_id` – custom field
  IDs to store the classification and importance (optional).
- `actions.post_internal_notes` – add an internal note summarizing the
  classification.
- `actions.post_suggested_reply` – add an internal note containing a suggested
  AI reply so agents can reply directly from FreeScout.

### Scheduled polling

```bash
python gmail_bot.py --poll-freescout --poll-interval 300
```

The bot fetches recent conversations from FreeScout, classifies the newest
customer thread, updates ticket metadata, and posts notes/suggestions based on
the configured toggles.

### Webhook handler

Add this minimal FastAPI or Flask endpoint to receive FreeScout webhooks and
let `gmail_bot` do the rest:

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI, Header, Request
from gmail_bot import freescout_webhook_handler

app = FastAPI()

@app.post("/freescout")
async def freescout(payload: Request, x_webhook_secret: str | None = Header(None)):
    body = await payload.json()
    message, status = freescout_webhook_handler(body, {"X-Webhook-Secret": x_webhook_secret})
    return message, status
```

Deploy the webhook with HTTPS and set the URL inside FreeScout's webhook
settings. The handler validates `X-Webhook-Secret` (when configured) and then
fetches the conversation from FreeScout before applying the same classification
and update flow used by the poller.
